# The Farmer's Journal — June 4, 1974

## FARM OUT!
*by Melissa Horvath & Doris Lange*

When we first decided to try "Farming it," our suburban neighbors were surprised — some to the point of disbelief. But someone believed us … the neighborhood cats! The female feline population decided that Farm Out would need lots of cats. I'm not quite sure where everyone got the idea that farms need cats, but we have bushels of them!

By the time our neighbors — former neighbors — had come to believe we were really going to be farmers, they all had kittens to donate to our new enterprise. It reminded us all of the nursery rhyme about the man going to St. Ives with all the wives, cats and kittens. We began to wish there was some way to milk a living from the feline population — especially since we now had so many mouths to feed, and not a single cow!

We have "house cats" here on the farm, and we have "barn cats," the latter working for the farmer. But the "barn cats" are always trying to work their way into the house, while the "house cats" are just the opposite, always finding ways out into the barn.

Lots of country people are given kittens, and others are given chickens. When the kids in school hatch eggs which turn out to be ducks, not chicks, they haven't the heart to leave them off at a chicken farm. So, because we have a farm, we get baby chicks every Spring. We keep them in a big box in a bedroom and keep them warm with a light borrowed from the fish tank. Of course, with the light on, the chicks peep all night and keep awake the kid whose room they are sharing.

This annual chick gift is very warmly welcomed but, in a very short time, they become roosters and hens at a ratio of about four roosters to every hen. This is okay during the summer when they can run free and eat all the bugs in the garden. But when Winter comes, the trouble begins. Because they are "pets," they can't be killed, so by Winter we have an overabundance of roosters. The chickens have to be shut up when the snow flies, and the roosters fight. They fight ferociously, with bloody, gory results. The injured roosters are brought into the house by self-martyred kids and kept there until they recuperate — crowing at night every time a light is switched on, escaping from their boxes with resultant chicken chases through the household. We've all become too familiar with "Farm Out!"

Right now we have not only baby chicks (with more to come) in the bedroom, but also bantam roosters living a bachelor life while their hens are brooding. The hens are setting together in one nest with a clump of eggs under each. They don't get up for any reason except to exchange clumps of eggs, and occasionally to roll an egg from one clump to another. We thought one of these hens was a rooster until she started laying eggs — so much do we know about Women's Lib!

> Whistling girls, like crowing hens,
> Are sure to come to no good ends.

Of course, the girls are not only whistling these days, but doing a lot of things we once considered "unfeminine." A question was raised lately about the area of interscholastic sports. Why do we spend so much for boys' sports, and little or nothing for girls? One authority says there was a lot more money and activity devoted to girls' sports back in the thirties. Do any of you remember those days, and care to share your memories with "Farm Out"? In any case, we are assured that state law now requires that, if school funds are available for sports, a reasonable share must be spent for the "weaker" sex.
